you know sometimes i look back and i'm
like were we in a cult
were we in a cult and was freely our
ringleaders
if you guys are new here back in the old
youtube days
i actually went by the alias supreme
banana
and i was actually deeply involved in
what
was before it went up in flames the
vegan community
i look back and i'm like what the [ __ ]
i was so like brainwashed thinking like
this is the way to eat
the only way to eat freely says it's
great and freely so skinny
that means it must be working for me and
i completely would bypass
like the fact that i felt like crap and
of course i'm saying this in a
totally biased way because i remember
being in my shoes in this time
and i remember being so obsessive over
what i was eating
um so maybe you guys watching you're
like oh that's not that bad it actually
looks pretty healthy but
i just know my mindset at the time
wasn't healthy but
it's healthy now and i think what's like
gotten me to be healthy
now like mentally with food is stopping
with the freaking
restrictions like the intense
restrictions like no oil high carb low
fat
raw till four like only eating raw until
4 pm like you bet your ass i wanted to
eat cooked food
like before four but i would force
myself to just eat fruit before that
because
freely said so if someone told me
say five years ago that in 2019
i will be living off grid in the jungle
with a man
from sweden i would have laughed out
loud
i wouldn't have believed it i lived in a
city for 20 years
and i know most of you do too city life
is pushed
as the most desirable lifestyle and as a
result more than half the world's
population
now inhabits cities and towns sure
it's fast-paced exciting stimulating
and convenient for some things however
it
comes at a price this high stress
environment
is also a place of immense spiritual
burnout the instant gratification
lifestyle
leaves us highly vulnerable and with an
unhealthy dependency
on an unstable system and you may think
well i don't live in a tropical place so
i can do this
well that is not true although the
tropics
suits your food war genetics best and i
do recommend you find a way to move to a
warmer location
you can still create your own little
food forest paradise
on as little as half an acre of land and
store and preserve
fruits and vegetables for times of
scarcity obviously some countries are
harder than others
but there are regions throughout america
for instance where this can be done
[Music]
it's really awesome to be part of such
an amazing community
[Music]
freely is indeed the leader of a cult
it's just not terribly successful cult
you don't need to have thousands of
followers
to be a cult leader you don't even need
to have
hundreds when you go down the checklist
for what it is that defines a cult three
of the most important
check marks to be found there will be
encouraging the followers to reject the
authority
of their own parents to rebel against
or separate themselves from the family
unit
convincing the followers to reject
worldly authority which yes includes
people like
political leaders but also medical
doctors and so on
to what those people say
because they're all part of an evil
conspiracy and to instead
primarily or only respect the advice
and perspective of the cult leader and
yeah another huge
check mark is calling on your followers
to reject mainstream society entirely
to go and live on a commune
to go and live in seclusion to start a
new society
to start a new world or a new life that
is more strictly in keeping with
the moral structures set down by the
cult leader
and that are incompatible with this
world inhabited
by you and i really is a cult leader
her cult has become much less popular in
the last five years
and the ideal
of how a modern woman ought to live has
become
more demanding in the last five years to
the point of becoming
unattainable or unappealing to the vast
majority
of her former viewers let's remember the
shallow end of the pool
five years ago had a lot to do with
personal vanity
personal purity too but the potential
for
personal success you too
could lose weight look great
make the world a better place get on
social media and pursue fame
just like freely that was the package
deal five years ago
today she's telling you you need to
start
prepping for the collapse of western
society today she's telling you
a lot of right-wing conspiracy theories
about the banking system
today she's telling you that you need to
go and buy a few acres of land
and start growing and preserving all of
your own food
so you can be self-reliant when the
collapse comes
the idealized life freely
is presenting to her audience is more
cult-like
than ever and the sacrifices she's
demanded
of her audience so they can live up to
her
moral standards have become harder
and harder to make abandoning
all your worldly possessions to go and
live in the jungle
has a certain timeless appeal to it
some cults invite you to leave this
society
to join or start a new society another
society when you look at this map
you see on screen this is oroville in
southern india this is a cult group
who built a whole city to house the
followers
of sri aurobindo and uh
his wife who was simply referred to as
the mother
if that doesn't sound like a cult to you
yet i mean i don't know what does
but um these were people
who said hey quit your day job leave
your family and your home life behind
come and live in a whole new place and a
whole new part of the world with this
distinctive style of architecture that
still to this day
draws tourists and admirers just like
vatican city
in one part what they're doing here is
building another sort of disneyland
but not all cults offer you a community
some of them instead invite you to
reject society
to take your own solitary path to live a
monastic existence
whether that be in the jungle in the
desert
or in a cave and what's interesting to
see with freely
in the last five years is that she had
her heart broken
and she shifted from type one to type
two
she shifted from the community building
leadership model of a cult
to the renunciate monastic model
of a cult where she is no longer holding
meet-ups
with thousands of people embracing her
flocking to get a selfie with her
where she is no longer inviting people
to come and join her in chiang mai
she is no longer trying to build a vegan
future a vegan community a city on the
hill
and you know what i wouldn't put it past
her i think she could have accomplished
something very much like
auroville i can easily imagine young
architects
jumping at the opportunity to build an
ideal
tourist destination for vegans that is
in one part
cult compound and another part
disneyland
she took that community building road as
far as she could
she had her heart broken and she now
instead
is on the narrow winding path to nowhere
inviting you also as her follower
to go and find your own little patch of
jungle to go and find your own little
patch of forest
and start growing your own mangoes start
making your own papaya chutney
so on and so forth that you also can
lead this
utterly isolated life of a renunciate
of a totally morally pure monastic
figure
in the middle of the forest
accomplishing nothing and going nowhere
whereas previously that community
building phase of our cult leadership
had something a little bit more
revolutionary about it didn't it
before there was just that possibility
that people were going to get motivated
to do something more than
lose weight look great become an athlete
become a social media influencer
there was something about saving
the world and now
her cult is all about leaving the world
behind my sling is editorial explicit
material
briefcase show live and stereo flow fill
me